+++
title = "Applying a global sensitivity analysis workflow to improve computational efficiencies in physiologically-based pharmacokinetic model"
date = "2018-03-12"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Hsieh NH**", "Reisfeld B" , "Bois FY", "Chiu WA"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*SOT Annual Meeting*"
publication_short = "*SOT Annual Meeting*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Traditionally, the usual solution to reduce parameter dimensionality in the physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model is through expert judgment. However, this approach may lead to lower efficiency and substantial bias in parameter estimates. The purpose of this study is to propose a global sensitivity analysis (GSA) algorithm to ascertain which parameters in a PBPK model are non-identifiable, and therefore can be assigned fixed values to improved speed and convergence in Bayesian parameter estimation with minimal bias. We used a well-developed, published population PBPK model that can predict and characterize the absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion of acetaminophen (APAP) with two major metabolites of APAP-glucuronide and APAP-sulfate in humans. The Morris Elementary Effects method and three variance-based sensitivity indices (Fourier amplitude sensitivity testing, Jansen, Owen) were used to determine the sensitive parameters in the original model. We also inspected all PBPK parameters that include the previously-fixed parameter in our simulation. The hierarchical clustering approach was used to determine the sensitive parameter that can be used to calibrate model performance. We then performed computational experiments using a hierarchical Bayesian approach with different GSA-judged sensitive parameters to verify and compare the predicted results. We identified the sensitive parameters that can significantly impact the performance in the PBPK model, with the three variance-based GSA estimators giving similar results in our cases. Twelve of the 21 original parameters have low sensitivity with respect to the outputs, and can be fixed to improve computational efficiency without any discernable change in accuracy or precision of the predictions. We further found 10 additional sensitive parameters among the 39 parameters that were previously fixed in the published PBPK model. By adding these additional sensitive parameters, we can improve model performance beyond the that of the original publication, while maintaining computational efficiency. In conclusion, we propose that this GSA approach provides an objective, transparent, and reproducible approach to improve the performance and computational efficiency of PBPK models."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
# projects = ["#"]

# Links (optional).
#url_pdf = "#"
#url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
url_poster = "/poster/2018-SOT.pdf"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++