+++
title = "pksensi: an R package to apply sensitivity analysis in pharmacokinetic modeling"
date = "2019-03-12"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Hsieh NH**", "Reisfeld B" , "Chiu WA"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*58th SOT Annual Meeting*"
publication_short = "*SOT Annual Meeting*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Sensitivity analysis is an essential tool for modelers to understand the influence of model parameters on model outputs. It is also increasingly used in developing and assessing pharmacokinetic models. In our previous work, we applied a global sensitivity analysis workflow to reduce the computational burden in the Bayesian Markov Chain Monte Carlo-based calibration process of a physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model. Although most of sensitivity analysis tools are constructed and can provide various algorithms to perform sensitivity analysis, we have not found a suitable package that provides functions with which users can visualize and distinguish the “non-influential” model parameters and can further apply to parameter fixing in pharmacokinetic model calibration. Therefore, we developed an R package, called **pksensi** (https://github.com/nanhung/pksensi), which is an open-source software package designed to make sensitivity analysis more accessible in pharmacological and toxicological research. This package can investigate both parameter uncertainty and sensitivity in pharmacokinetic models, such as PBPK model with multivariate model outputs (multiple time-points and tissue compartments). It adopted extended Fourier Amplitude Sensitivity Test with random phase-shift approach to analyzing the variation of sensitivity index for each model parameter. We developed a function for user to estimate the time-dependent sensitivity index for their own model parameters. Furthermore, **pksensi** includes functions to check the convergence and sensitivity of model parameters, providing a means to assess the robustness of the sensitivity measurement. By utilizing **pksensi**, we successfully reproduce our previously published result of human PBPK modeling for acetaminophen and its two primary metabolites. Overall, **pksensi** improve the user experience of performing sensitivity analysis and can create robust and reproducible results for decision making in pharmacokinetic model calibration."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["GSA-PBPK"]

# Links (optional).
#url_pdf = "#"
#url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
url_poster = "/poster/2019-SOT.pdf"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "2019-SOT.png"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++